<languages />
{{PD help}}
__TOC__
<translate>
== Goal == <!--T:1-->
</translate>
<translate><!--T:2--> The goal is to provide a set of pages, which can be copied into a fresh wiki installation or included in the MediaWiki distribution.</translate>
<translate><!--T:41--> This will include basic user information, along with other Meta information, in a reasonably concise form.</translate>
<translate><!--T:42--> The basic concept is to create a ''compressed'' "''User Guide''", not a reference work. It should focus on what users want and not explain other functions.</translate>

<translate>
== License == <!--T:3-->
</translate>
<translate><!--T:4--> Contributions to the '''PD Help''', are released as '''public domain''' via the [<tvar name=url>https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/</tvar> CC0 waiver].</translate>
<translate><!--T:43--> This is necessary in order to allow users to easily copy the text into their own wiki installations.</translate>
<translate><!--T:44--> ''Please ensure you understand the following before contributing'':</translate>

* <translate><!--T:5--> Every page in the PD Help, must contain the line <tvar name=1><code><nowiki>{{PD Help Page}}</nowiki></code></tvar> to indicate the license.</translate>
* <translate><!--T:6--> No content can be copied from elsewhere into these pages. The only exceptions being:</translate>
# <translate><!--T:7--> The content being copied is your own personal (e.g. the author), or you have documented permission from the original author(s).</translate>
# <translate><!--T:8--> Content that is already in the ''Public Domain'' can be copied here; however, this does '''NOT''' include the majority of published web pages!</translate>
* <translate><!--T:9--> You are relinquishing all rights to the information you contribute here. Although you will continue to have your contributions listed and attributed on this site, others can copy the text without giving credit, and can modify it as they see fit.</translate>

<translate>
== Target readership: Normal users == <!--T:10-->

<!--T:11-->
The help pages are very much targeted at normal visitors to a wiki website.

=== ''Not'' server administrators === <!--T:12-->
</translate>
<translate><!--T:13--> We are not aiming to duplicate the full MediaWiki documentation.</translate>
<translate><!--T:45--> Information targeted at server administrators, detailing installation, configuration, or maintenance of MediaWiki, belongs in the [[<tvar name=1>Project:Manual</tvar>|Manual]].</translate>

<translate>
<!--T:14-->
The ''only'' small exception to this, is the 'Admin tips' boxes (described below).

=== Information for sysop / bureaucrat users less prominent === <!--T:15-->
</translate>
<translate><!--T:16--> ''Help pages'' would not be complete without it also describing what 'sysop' users can do.</translate>
<translate><!--T:46--> However, these advanced features are not available to the majority of the target audience (most wiki users).</translate>
<translate><!--T:47--> As such, this information is to be kept slightly separate from the majority of the contents, so that normal users are not confronted with information which is not relevant to them.</translate>

<translate>
<!--T:17-->
Within the bulk of ''Help pages'', brief mentions of actions which require sysop privileges may be deemed necessary; but, detailed descriptions of sysop procedures should be tucked away on less prominently linked pages, or should be left out of ''Help pages'', altogether.

<!--T:18-->
''This section is [[<tvar name=talk>Project Talk:PD help</tvar>|under discussion]]''

== Editorial guidelines == <!--T:19-->
</translate>
* <translate><!--T:20--> Create links between the pages, but avoid linking to other namespaces on MediaWiki.org. Keep the links internal to the public domain help pages, or make external links (full URL) to relevant resources, ''e.g. on meta.wikimedia.org''. This is to facilitate easier copying of the text into fresh wiki installations.  Do not use interwiki links, as these may not exist in the target wiki.</translate>
* <translate><!--T:21--> We probably don't want to swap in the <tvar name=sitename><nowiki>{{SITENAME}}</nowiki></tvar> syntax anywhere. MediaWiki is the name of the software we are describing. This is the ''Content Management Software'' (CMS), that enables the destination wiki to run, so anywhere where our text is referring to the software (everywhere throughout help), it should be left as a literal string "MediaWiki". If, for some reasons, the help text is mentioning the name of the site, then this would be an appropriate exception (use <tvar name=sitename><nowiki>{{SITENAME}}</nowiki></tvar>). However, we are ''not'' going to swap this in everywhere we mention the word MediaWiki.</translate>
* <translate><!--T:22--> Translations should be done '''after''' the English version of a page has reached a stable status. The naming convention is <code>Pagetitle/''language-code''</code> (e.g. Help:Editing/pt).</translate>
* <translate><!--T:23--> Unless you have the perfect solution for navigation in this manual, please refrain from creating navigation templates, and focus '''content''' creation first.</translate>
* <translate><!--T:24--> Do not use extensions such as [[<tvar name=cite>Extension:Cite</tvar>|Cite]], since they are not installed on all MediaWiki installations.</translate>

<translate>
=== Formatting === <!--T:25-->
</translate>
* <translate><!--T:26--> Formatting should be consistent. Use <tvar name=wikitable><code>class="wikitable"</code></tvar> for any tables you create, highlight cells or rows with <tvar name=hl1><code><nowiki>{{Hl1}}</nowiki></code></tvar> etc.</translate>
* <translate><!--T:27--> All wiki markup and code should be put in <tvar name=code>{{tag|code|open}}</tvar> or <tvar name=pre>{{tag|pre|open}}</tvar> tags. Help for inserting: <tvar name=help><code><nowiki>{{subst:nw|text}}</nowiki></code></tvar>.</translate>
* <translate><!--T:28--> All references to menu texts and descriptions should appear in ''italic''.</translate>

<translate>
=== Screenshot images === <!--T:29-->
</translate>
<translate><!--T:30--> [[<tvar name=screenshots>Help:Screenshots</tvar>|Screenshots]] are useful.</translate>
<translate><!--T:48--> PD help pages do ''not'' have to contain only public domain screenshots (although trademarked logos must not be included).</translate>
<translate><!--T:51--> Screenshots should be uploaded to Wikimedia Commons and use the <tvar name=1>{{[[commons:Template:MediaWiki screenshot|MediaWiki screenshot]]}}</tvar> license template.</translate>

<translate>
<!--T:31-->
Images can be shipped with the documentation or accessed from Commons with <tvar name=instantcommons>{{ll|InstantCommons}}</tvar>.

== Admin tips == <!--T:32-->

<!--T:33-->
If something in ''Help'' can be configured by a server administrator, you may insert an 'admin tip' with <tvar name=admintip><code>{{tl|Admin tip|tip&#61;text}}</code></tvar>.

== Category == <!--T:34-->
</translate>
<translate><!--T:35--> All pages in the "<tvar name=help>Help:</tvar>" namespace are, by definition, part of this public domain Help documentation project and should be categorized <tvar name=category>{{ll|Category:Help}}</tvar>.</translate>
<translate><!--T:49--> ''Help pages'' for MediaWiki extensions, should be categorized in its subcategory <tvar name=extensionhelp>{{ll|Category:Extension help}}</tvar>.</translate>

<translate><!--T:36--> The former category for pages in the "<tvar name=help>Help:</tvar>" namespace, this public domain Help documentation project, was '''<tvar name=oldcat>Category:PD help</tvar>'''.</translate>
<translate><!--T:50--> In keeping with simplicity, the category is now simply <tvar name=category>{{ll|Category:Help}}</tvar> and all pages have been updated.</translate>

<translate>
== See also == <!--T:37-->
</translate>
* {{ll|Project:Language policy}}&nbsp;&ndash; <translate><!--T:38--> If you are interested in working on '''non-English''' versions of the help pages.</translate>
* {{ll|Project:PD help/export}}&nbsp;&ndash; <translate><!--T:39--> Discusses a proposed method of creating usable dumps of the Help: namespace. This is still at the discussion stage and is not yet functional.</translate>

[[Category:Policy{{#translation:}}|PD help]]
[[Category:MediaWiki.org WikiProjects{{#translation:}}]]
